Q: What is the generalization of the median?
A: Quantile

Q: What is the difference between ‘“long” and “wide” format data?
A: Wide: categorical data is grouped in a single row, long: each row is an observation belonging to a particular category.

Q: Technique used to sample based on a probability where each sample unit is a collection of a cluster element
A: Cluster sampling

Q: Name three supervised learning algorithms.
A: Support Vector Machines, Regression, Naive Bayes, Decision Trees, Neural Networks, ect.

Q: Name three unsupervised learning algorithms.
A: Clustering, Anomaly Detection, Latent variable models, Neural Networks (Autoencoders), ect.

Q: What is the type of machine learning algorithms used to draw inferences from labeled data?
A: Suppervised Learning

Q: What is the type of machine learning algorithms used to draw inferences from data with out labels?
A: Unsuppervised Learning

Q: Type of backpropagation where we use only a single training example for calculation of the gradient and update parameters.
A: Stochastic Gradient Descent

Q: Type of backpropagation where we use the whole dataset to perform a single step.
A: Batch Gradient Descent

Q: Type of backpropagation where we use a fixed number of training examples which is lees than the actual dataset to perform a calculation of the gradient
A: Mini-batch Gradient Descent

Q: Name three different deep learning frameworks
A: TensorFlow, PyTorch, Keras, Caffe, ect

Q: Graphical representation of the contrast between true positives and false positives rates at various thresholds.
A: ROC curve

Q: Name three types of kernels in SVM:
A: Linear, polynomial, radical, sigmoid

Q: What is prunning in a decision tree?
A: When we remove the sub-nodes of the decision tree.

Q: What is ensemble learning?
A: Combining induvidual models together with the purpose of improving the predictive power of the model.

Q: Would you use k-fold cross validation on time series data? Explain.
A: No, you should be aware to the fact that a time series is not randomly distributed data.

Q: What is the process of adding tunning parameters to a model to induce smothness in order to prevent overfitting?
A: Regularisation

Q: Who is the creator of GANs architecture?
A: Ian Goodfellow

Q: What two parameters defined a normal distribution?
A: Its mean and its standard deviation

Q: In a normal distribution which parameter indicates where the bell is centered?
A: The mean

Q: In a normal distribution which parameter indicates how wide is the bell?
A: The standard deviation

Q: What is count encoding?
A: Count encoding replaces each categorical value with the number of times it appears in the dataset.

Q: What is one hot encoding?
A: A sparse vector in which: One element is set to 1 and all other elements are set to 0.

Q: What is target encoding?
A: Target encoding replaces a categorical value with the average value of the target for that value of the feature.

Q: What is data leakage?
A: When information from outside the training dataset is used to create the model. For expample, including any information from the validation or test sets into the model.

Q: Imagine you are applying a desicion tree based model to a numerical dataset and you run a experiment where you scale the features. What model would give the best results the original or the scaleted one?
A: They should give the same result because tree-based models are scale invariant.

Q: What is the difference between L1 (Lasso) and L2 (Ridge) regularization)
A: L1 penalizes the absolute magnitude of the coefficients and L2 penalizes the square of the coefficients.

Q: What is the difference of and nominal and ordinal feature?
A: Nominal data assigns names to each data point without placing it in some sort of order, ex: pass, fail. And ordinal data groups data according to some sort of ranking system: it orders the data, ex: grades A, B, C, D, E and F

Q: What does high and low cardinality mean?
A: High cardinality refers to columns with values that are very uncommon or unique, example: email addresses, or user names. And low cardinality: refers to columns with few unique values, example: status flags, boolean values.

Q: What is a confusion matrix?
A: A confusion matrix lets you see for a given model how your predictions compare with the actual results. It’s a 2x2 grid that has four parts: the number of true positives, false positives, true negatives, and false negatives.

Q: Confusion Matrix should be used for supervised or unsupervised learning problems?
A: Supervised

Q: What is R-squared?
A: R-squared is a statistical measure of how close the data are to the fitted regression line. It is also known as the coefficient of determination.

Q: What is a residual?
A: Is the difference between the observed value and the estimated value of the quantity of interest.

Q: What is boosting when referring to machine learning algorithms?
A: Boosting refers to a whole class of machine learning algorithms that are built on taking a weak model and reusing it enough times so that it becomes a strong one.

Q: What is AdaGrad?
A: A sophisticated gradient descent algorithm that rescales the gradients of each parameter, effectively giving each parameter an independent learning rate.

Q: Explain what is bucketing.
A: Converting a (usually continuous) feature into multiple binary features called buckets or bins, typically based on value range.

Q: How many centroids a k-means algorithm with k = 3 would find?
A: 3

Q: Which ones are two actors in a convolutional operation?
A: Convulutional filter and a slice of an input matrix.

Q: What is the difference between a dense and a sparse feature?
A: A dense feature is one in which most values are non-zero in contrast with a sparse one where most values are zeros or empty.

Q: What is dimensionality reduction?
A: It is the process of reducing the number of variables under consideration by obtaining a set of principal variables.

Q: What is downsampling in the context of class-imbalanced dataset?
A: Training on a disproportionately low percentage of over-represented class examples in order to improve model training on under-represented classes.

Q: How does dropout regularization works in deep learning?
A: Dropout regularization works by removing a random selection of a fixed number of the units in a network layer for a single gradient step.

Q: 	What is early stopping?
A: A method for regularization that involves ending model training before training loss finishes decreasing. In early stopping, you end model training when the loss on a validation dataset starts to increase.

Q: What is an epoch?
A: A full training pass over the entire dataset such that each example has been seen once.

Q: What is a batch?
A: Number of training samples in 1 Forward/1 Backward pass.

Q: What is a false negative?
A: An example in which the model mistakenly predicted the negative class.

Q: What is a false positive?
A: An example in which the model mistakenly predicted the positive class.

Q: Which are the two components of a Generative Adversarial Network?
A: A generator and a discriminator

A: What is the function of the generator in a GAN?
Q: It creates new examples.

A: What is the function of the discriminator in a GAN?
Q: Determine whether examples are real or fake.

A: What does gradient descent tries to minimize?
Q: A loss function.

Q: Logistic regression is usefull for estimating continuous variables?
A: No.

A: LeCun, Cortes, and Burges compiled a very famous dataset containing 60000 images of handwritten digits. What is the name of this dataset?
Q: MNIST

Q: Values distant from most other values.
A: Outliers.

Q: Creating a model that matches the training data so closely that the model fails to make correct predictions on new data.
A: Overfitting.

Q: Precision is the rate between?
A: True Positives / (True Positives + False Positives)

Q: Explain the basic concept of random forest
A: An ensemble approach to finding the decision tree that best fits the training data by creating many decision trees and then determining the "average" one. 

Q: What does random mean in the random forest term?
A: The "random" part of the term refers to building each of the decision trees from a random selection of features.

Q: If someone ask you: Out of all the possible positive labels, how many did the model correctly identify? Which metric should you calculate?
A: Recall

Q: Which activation function follows these rules: If input is negative or zero, output is 0 and if input is positive, output is equal to input.
A: Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU)

Q: Explain what a softmax function does?
A: Provides probabilities for each possible class in a multi-class classification model. The probabilities add up to exactly 1.0

Q: What does stationarity in a dataset means?
A: A property of data in a dataset, in which the data distribution stays constant across one or more dimensions. Most commonly, that dimension is time.

Q: Producing a model with poor predictive ability because the model hasn't captured the complexity of the training data.
A: Underfitting.